Preliminary Results

Preliminary results indicate that the number of blocks in a line relative to 
the line's length and the percentage of the line taken by the longest block 
weakly predicts the order in which an entire line is solved. The former has a 
positive correlation to the order in which lines are resolved, and the latter 
has a negative relationship.

Neither the percentage of the line taken by the shortest line nor the 
percentage of the line covered by blocks and/or predicted spaces (both not 
shown) have a discernible correlation to the order in which an entire line is 
solved.

Although the lines vary from 20 to 35 units in length, the lines' lengths has 
no apparent influence on the linear equations associated with the parameters 
mentioned above.

The number of blocks and the longest block's length predict only four to five 
percent of the variance in line order, but the two parameters much more 
strongly predict each other. Nevertheless, combining the two parameters in an 
equation slightly improves the predictive power (to six percent), and both were 
shown to have an influence on the line order independently of each other.

A much greater influence on the relative order that lines are resolved, 
however, appears to be the proximity of the line to the one that solved last. 
The frequency that the nth+1 line is next to (or at least very close to) the 
nth line is far higher than that which would occur if the lines were selected 
in random order (not shown).

This complicates the process of predicting the order in which lines are 
resolved. Whether the predicted first-resolved line is correct largely 
determines the accuracy of the final prediction. In addition, it would not be 
sufficient to select a neighbouring line as the second-resolved and then move - 
in single spaces - left or right until the edge of a nonogram is reached, which 
is the trajectory that the preliminary results seem to indicate.

Any method for predicting the order would need to calculate the probability 
that any line after the first-resolved one would be the nth+1 one, taking into 
account where it is relative to the nth line, its longest block's length and 
the number of blocks it has.

At this point, the project is (at least temporarily) halted, as the author does 
not currently have the skills and/or knowledge to develop a predictive method 
that could balance these three factors - and possibly others that have not yet 
been considered.
